```{=org}
#+FILETAGS: 
```
```{=org}
#+hugo_base_dir: ~/ws/kepair.eu
```
```{=org}
#+hugo_section: ./post
```
```{=org}
#+hugo_auto_set_lastmod: t
```
```{=org}
#+hugo_draft: true
```
Sobre el monote√≠smo:

06/15/21Chapter II: The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The
Antonines.---Part I.: 192 Some obscure traces of an intolerant spirit
appear in the conduct of the Egyptians, (see Juvenal, Sat. xv.;) and the
Christians, as well as Jews, who lived under the Roman empire, formed a
very important exception; so important indeed, that the discussion will
require a distinct chapter of this work. \* Note: M. Constant, in his
very learned and eloquent work, "Sur la Religion," with the two
additional volumes, "Du Polytheisme Romain," has considered the whole
history of polytheism in a tone of philosophy, which, without
subscribing to all his opinions, we may be permitted to admire. "The
boasted tolerance of polytheism did not rest upon the respect due from
society to the freedom of individual opinion. The polytheistic nations,
tolerant as they were towards each other, as separate states were not
the less ignorant of the eternal principle, the only basis of
enlightened toleration, that every one has a right to worship God in the
manner which seems to him the best. Citizens, on the contrary, were
bound to conform to the religion of the state; they had not the liberty
to adopt a foreign religion, though that religion might be legally
recognized in their own city, for the strangers who were its votaries."
---Sur la Religion, v. 184. Du. Polyth. Rom. ii. 308. At this time, the
growing religious indifference, and the general administration of the
empire by Romans, who, being strangers, would do no more than protect,
not enlist themselves in the cause of the local superstitions, had
introduced great laxity. But intolerance was clearly the theory both of
the Greek and Roman law. The subject is more fully considered in another
place.

06/15/21Chapter II: The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The
Antonines.---Part I.: 197 Notwithstanding the fashionable irreligion
which prevailed in the age of the Antonines, both the interest of the
priests and the credulity of the people were sufficiently respected. In
their writings and conversation, the philosophers of antiquity asserted
the independent dignity of reason; but they resigned their actions to
the commands of law and of custom. Viewing, with a smile of pity and
indulgence, the various errors of the vulgar, they diligently practised
the ceremonies of their fathers, devoutly frequented the temples of the
gods; and sometimes condescending to act a part on the theatre of
superstition, they concealed the sentiments of an atheist under the
sacerdotal robes. Reasoners of such a temper were scarcely inclined to
wrangle about their respective modes of faith, or of worship. It was
indifferent to them what shape the folly of the multitude might choose
to assume; and they approached with the same inward contempt, and the
same external reverence, the altars of the Libyan, the Olympian, or the
Capitoline Jupiter

---

Sobre el cristianismo y la esclavitud:

06/18/21Chapter II: The Internal Prosperity In The Age Of The
Antonines.---Part II.: 227 Captives taken in war were, in all
probability, the first persons subjected to perpetual servitude; and,
when the necessities or luxury of mankind increased the demand for
slaves, every new war recruited their number, by reducing the vanquished
to that wretched condition. Hence proceeded the fierce and desperate
spirit with which wars were carried on among ancient nations. While
chains and slavery were the certain lot of the conquered, battles were
fought, and towns defended with a rage and obstinacy which nothing but
horror at such a fate could have inspired; but, putting an end to the
cruel institution of slavery, Christianity extended its mild influences
to the practice of war, and that barbarous art, softened by its humane
spirit, ceased to be so destructive. Secure, in every event, of personal
liberty, the resistance of the vanquished became less obstinate, and the
triumph of the victor less cruel. Thus humanity was introduced into the
exercise of war, with which it appears to be almost incompatible; and it
is to the merciful maxims of Christianity, much more than to any other
cause, that we must ascribe the little ferocity and bloodshed which
accompany modern victories.
