```{=org}
#+CREATED: [2021-03-21 Sun 15:57]
```
```{=org}
#+FILETAGS: 
```
```{=org}
#+ROAM_TAGS: copyright
```
# Copyright, free culture and the Internet {#copyright-free-culture-and-the-internet-1}

Humans have been creating tools since the dawn of times. And since the
beginning they wanted something back. Invention and creation is a
process that requires experience, knowledge, materials, tools and time.

[There was no copyright in the ancient
times](202103211459-there_was_no_copyright_in_the_ancient_times.org).
However, [sometimes they didn\'t want to share it with
others](202103211506-early_cases_of_protected_inventions.org).

Sharing inventions has helped humans progress since forever, but we
wouldn\'t have so many of them if there wasn\'t anything in for the
inventors. So, how have we managed it throughout history?

The records give us the [History of property
law](202103211515-history_of_property_law.org).

Just by seeing how it came to be, it becomes clear that a higher power
is needed in order to grant the monopoly and protect it from
aggressions. Property protection appears after a level of civilization
is reached.

No government and stability --> No protection against abuse

When creations started to be intellectual and intangible, the notion of
copyright appeared. This was after the pressed print. Writings could be
copied without any restrictions, and authors were not compensated
fairly. This reduced the amount of books in circulation, increasing the
price. Books became something scarce and only available to elites.

Today inventions are protected with 50+ years after the death of the
author. In Spain, only pieces from before 1940 are in oublic domain.
It\'s 1926 for the US.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright_law_of_the_United_States#Duration_of_copyright>

The copyright durations have been increasing steadily in the last 3
centuries:
![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/77/Tom_Bell%27s_graph_showing_extension_of_U.S._copyright_term_over_time.svg)

This changes coincide with the rise of the corporation, legal people
that also seek profit from inventions. The difference is that they
don\'t die.

How copyright laws with long duration harm progress?

# Additional questions

What is the difference between COPYRIGHT VS PATENTS?

Los NFT o algo as√≠ intentan implementar una escasez de productos para
elevar precios.
